CHAPTER III. OPEN TENDERING
Section I. Solicitation of tenders

Article 36. Procedures for soliciting tenders
The procuring entity shall solicit tenders by causing an invitation to tender to
be published in accordance with the provisions of article 33 of this Law.

Article 37. Contents of invitation to tender
The invitation to tender shall include the following information:
(a) The name and address of the procuring entity;
(b) A summary of the principal required terms and conditions of the procurement
contract to be entered into as a result of the procurement proceedings,
including the nature, quantity and place of delivery of the goods
to be supplied, the nature and location of the construction to be effected or the
nature of the services and the location where they are to be provided, as well
as the desired or required time for the supply of the goods, the completion of
the construction or the provision of the services;
(c) A summary of the criteria and procedures to be used for ascertaining
the qualifications of suppliers or contractors, and of any documentary evidence
or other information that must be submitted by suppliers or contractors to
demonstrate their qualifications, in conformity with article 9 of this Law;
(d) A declaration pursuant to article 8 of this Law;
(e) The means of obtaining the solicitation documents and the place where
they may be obtained;
(f) The price, if any, to be charged by the procuring entity for the
solicitation
documents;
(g) If a price is to be charged for the solicitation documents, the means
and currency of payment;
(h) The language or languages in which the solicitation documents are
available;
(i) The manner, place and deadline for presenting tenders.

Article 38. Provision of solicitation documents
The procuring entity shall provide the solicitation documents to each supplier
or contractor that responds to the invitation to tender in accordance with the
procedures and requirements specified therein. If pre-qualification proceedings
have been engaged in, the procuring entity shall provide a set of solicitation
documents to each supplier or contractor that has been pre-qualified
and that pays the price, if any, charged for those documents. The price that the
procuring entity may charge for the solicitation documents shall reflect only
the cost of providing them to suppliers or contractors.

Article 39. Contents of solicitation documents
The solicitation documents shall include the following information:
(a) Instructions for preparing tenders;
(b) The criteria and procedures, in conformity with the provisions of article
9 of this Law, that will be applied in the ascertainment of the qualifications
of suppliers or contractors and in any further demonstration of qualifications
pursuant
to paragraph 5 of article 43 of this Law;
(c) The requirements as to documentary evidence or other information
that must be presented by suppliers or contractors to demonstrate their
qualifications;
(d) A detailed description of the subject matter of the procurement, in
conformity with article 10 of this Law; the quantity of the goods; the services
to be performed; the location where the goods are to be delivered, construction
is to be effected or services are to be provided; and the desired or required
time, if any, when goods are to be delivered, construction is to be effected or
services are to be provided;
(e) The terms and conditions of the procurement contract, to the extent
that they are already known to the procuring entity, and the form of the contract,
if any, to be signed by the parties;
(f) If alternatives to the characteristics of the subject matter of the
procurement,
the contractual terms and conditions or other requirements set
out in the solicitation documents are permitted, a statement to that effect and a
description of the manner in which alternative tenders are to be evaluated;
(g) If suppliers or contractors are permitted to present tenders for only a
portion of the subject matter of the procurement, a description of the portion
or portions for which tenders may be presented;
(h) The manner in which the tender price is to be formulated and expressed,
including a statement as to whether the price is to cover elements other than
the cost of the subject matter of the procurement itself, such as any applicable
transportation and insurance charges, customs duties and taxes;
(i) The currency or currencies in which the tender price is to be formulated
and expressed;
(j) The language or languages, in conformity with article 13 of this Law,
in which tenders are to be prepared;
(k) Any requirements of the procuring entity with respect to the issuer
and the nature, form, amount and other principal terms and conditions of any
tender security to be provided by suppliers or contractors presenting tenders
in accordance with article 17 of this Law, and any such requirements for any
security for the performance of the procurement contract to be provided by
the supplier or contractor that enters into the procurement contract, including
securities such as labour and material bonds;
(l) If a supplier or contractor may not modify or withdraw its tender prior
to the deadline for presenting tenders without forfeiting its tender security, a
statement to that effect;
(m) The manner, place and deadline for presenting tenders, in conformity
with article 14 of this Law;
(n) The means by which, pursuant to article 15 of this Law, suppliers or
contractors may seek clarification of the solicitation documents and a statement
as to whether the procuring entity intends to convene a meeting of suppliers
or contractors at this stage;
(o) The period of time during which tenders shall be in effect, in conformity
with article 41 of this Law;
(p) The manner, place, date and time for the opening of tenders, in conformity
with article 42 of this Law;
(q) The criteria and procedure for examining tenders against the description
of the subject matter of the procurement;
(r) The criteria and procedure for evaluating tenders in accordance with
article 11 of this Law;
(s) The currency that will be used for the purpose of evaluating tenders
pursuant to paragraph 4 of article 43 of this Law and either the exchange rate
that will be used for the conversion of tender prices into that currency or a
statement that the rate published by a specified financial institution and prevailing
on a specified date will be used;
(t) References to this Law, the procurement regulations and other laws
and regulations directly pertinent to the procurement proceedings, including
those applicable to procurement involving classified information, and the place
where those laws and regulations may be found;
(u) The name, functional title and address of one or more officers or
employees of the procuring entity who are authorized to communicate directly
with and to receive communications directly from suppliers or contractors in
connection with the procurement proceedings without the intervention of an
intermediary;
(v) Notice of the right provided under article 64 of this Law to challenge
or appeal decisions or actions taken by the procuring entity that are allegedly
not in compliance with the provisions of this Law, together with information
about the duration of the applicable standstill period and, if none will apply, a
statement to that effect and the reasons therefor;
(w) Any formalities that will be required, once a successful tender has
been accepted, for a procurement contract to enter into force, including, where
applicable, the execution of a written procurement contract and approval by
another authority pursuant to article 22 of this Law, and the estimated period
of time following the dispatch of the notice of acceptance that will be required
to obtain the approval;
(x) Any other requirements established by the procuring entity in conformity
with this Law and the procurement regulations relating to the preparation
and presentation of tenders and to other aspects of the procurement proceedings.

Section II. Presentation of tenders

Article 40. Presentation of tenders
1. Tenders shall be presented in the manner, at the place and by the deadline
specified in the solicitation documents.

2. (a) A tender shall be presented in writing, signed and:
(i) If in paper form, in a sealed envelope; or
(ii) If in any other form, according to the requirements specified by the
procuring entity in the solicitation documents, which shall ensure at least
a similar degree of authenticity, security, integrity and confidentiality;
(b) The procuring entity shall provide to the supplier or contractor a receipt
showing the date and time when its tender was received;
(c) The procuring entity shall preserve the security, integrity and
confidentiality of a tender and shall ensure that the content of the tender is
examined only after it is opened in accordance with this Law.

3. A tender received by the procuring entity after the deadline for presenting
tenders shall not be opened and shall be returned unopened to the supplier or
contractor that presented it.

Article 41. Period of effectiveness of tenders; modification and
withdrawal of tenders
1. Tenders shall be in effect during the period of time specified in the
solicitation documents.

2. (a) Prior to the expiry of the period of effectiveness of tenders, the
procuring entity may request suppliers or contractors to extend the period for
an additional specified period of time. A supplier or contractor may refuse the
request without forfeiting its tender security;
(b) Suppliers or contractors that agree to an extension of the period of
effectiveness of their tenders shall extend or procure an extension of the period
of effectiveness of tender securities provided by them or provide new tender
securities to cover the extended period of effectiveness of their tenders. A supplier
or contractor whose tender security is not extended, or that has not provided
a new tender security, is considered to have refused the request to extend
the period of effectiveness of its tender.

3. Unless otherwise stipulated in the solicitation documents, a supplier or
contractor may modify or withdraw its tender prior to the deadline for presenting
tenders without forfeiting its tender security. The modification or notice
of withdrawal is effective if it is received by the procuring entity prior to the
deadline for presenting tenders.

Section III. Evaluation of tenders

Article 42. Opening of tenders
1. Tenders shall be opened at the time specified in the solicitation documents
as the deadline for presenting tenders. They shall be opened at the place and
in accordance with the manner and procedures specified in the solicitation
documents.

2. All suppliers or contractors that have presented tenders, or their
representatives,
shall be permitted by the procuring entity to participate in the
opening of tenders.

3. The name and address of each supplier or contractor whose tender is
opened and the tender price shall be announced to those persons present at the
opening of tenders, communicated on request to suppliers or contractors that
have presented tenders but that are not present or represented at the opening of
tenders, and included immediately in the record of the procurement proceedings
required by article 25 of this Law.

Article 43. Examination and evaluation of tenders
1. (a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, the procuring entity
shall regard a tender as responsive if it conforms to all requirements set out in
the solicitation documents in accordance with article 10 of this Law;
(b) The procuring entity may regard a tender as responsive even if it contains
minor deviations that do not materially alter or depart from the characteristics,
terms, conditions and other requirements set out in the solicitation
documents or if it contains errors or oversights that can be corrected without
touching on the substance of the tender. Any such deviations shall be quantified,
to the extent possible, and appropriately taken account of in the evaluation
of tenders.
2. The procuring entity shall reject a tender:
(a) If the supplier or contractor that presented the tender is not qualified;
(b) If the supplier or contractor that presented the tender does not accept a
correction of an arithmetical error made pursuant to article 16 of this Law;
(c) If the tender is not responsive;
(d) In the circumstances referred to in article 20 or 21 of this Law.
3. (a) The procuring entity shall evaluate the tenders that have not been
rejected in order to ascertain the successful tender, as defined in subparagraph
(b) of this paragraph, in accordance with the criteria and procedures set out in
the solicitation documents. No criterion or procedure shall be used that has not
been set out in the solicitation documents;
(b) The successful tender shall be:
(i) Where price is the only award criterion, the tender with the lowest
tender price; or
(ii) Where there are price and other award criteria, the most advantageous
tender ascertained on the basis of the criteria and procedures
for evaluating tenders specified in the solicitation documents in
accordance with article 11 of this Law.
4. When tender prices are expressed in two or more currencies, for the purpose
of evaluating and comparing tenders, the tender prices of all tenders shall be converted
to the currency specified in the solicitation documents according to the rate
set out in those documents, pursuant to subparagraph (s) of article 39 of this Law.
5. Whether or not it has engaged in pre-qualification proceedings pursuant
to article 18 of this Law, the procuring entity may require the supplier or
contractor
presenting the tender that has been found to be the successful tender
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this article to demonstrate its qualifications
again, in accordance with criteria and procedures conforming to the provisions
of article 9 of this Law. The criteria and procedures to be used for such further
demonstration shall be set out in the solicitation documents. Where pre-qualification
proceedings have been engaged in, the criteria shall be the same
as those used in the pre-qualification proceedings.
6. If the supplier or contractor presenting the successful tender is requested to
demonstrate its qualifications again in accordance with paragraph 5 of this article
but fails to do so, the procuring entity shall reject that tender and shall select
the next successful tender from among those remaining in effect, in accordance
with paragraph 3 of this article, subject to the right of the procuring entity to
cancel the procurement in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 19 of this Law.

Article 44. Prohibition of negotiations with suppliers or contractors
No negotiations shall take place between the procuring entity and a supplier
or contractor with respect to a tender presented by the supplier or contractor.
 
