CHAPTER IV. PROCEDURES FOR RESTRICTED TENDERING, REQUESTS FOR QUOTATIONS AND REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS WITHOUT NEGOTIATION

Article 45. Restricted tendering
1. The procuring entity shall solicit tenders in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 1 and 5 of article 34 of this Law.
2. The provisions of chapter III of this Law, except for articles 36 to 38, shall
apply to restricted-tendering proceedings.

Article 46. Request for quotations
1. The procuring entity shall request quotations in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 2 of article 34 of this Law. Each supplier or contractor
from which a quotation is requested shall be informed whether any elements
other than the charges for the subject matter of the procurement itself, such as
any applicable transportation and insurance charges, customs duties and taxes,
are to be included in the price.
2. Each supplier or contractor is permitted to give only one price quotation
and is not permitted to change its quotation. No negotiations shall take place
between the procuring entity and a supplier or contractor with respect to a
quotation presented by the supplier or contractor.
3. The successful quotation shall be the lowest-priced quotation meeting the
needs of the procuring entity as set out in the request for quotations.

Article 47. Request for proposals without negotiation
1. The procuring entity shall solicit proposals by causing an invitation to
participate in the request-for-proposals-without-negotiation proceedings to be
published in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 35 of this Law, unless an
exception provided for in that article applies.
2. The invitation shall include:
(a) The name and address of the procuring entity;
(b) A detailed description of the subject matter of the procurement, in
conformity with article 10 of this Law, and the desired or required time and
location for the provision of such subject matter;
(c) The terms and conditions of the procurement contract, to the extent
that they are already known to the procuring entity, and the form of the contract,
if any, to be signed by the parties;
(d) The criteria and procedures to be used for ascertaining the qualifications
of suppliers or contractors and any documentary evidence or other information
that must be presented by suppliers or contractors to demonstrate their
qualifications, in conformity with article 9 of this Law;
(e) The criteria and procedures for opening the proposals and for examining
and evaluating the proposals in accordance with articles 10 and 11 of this Law,
including the minimum requirements with respect to technical, quality and
performance characteristics that proposals must meet in order to be considered
responsive in accordance with article 10 of this Law, and a statement that proposals
that fail to meet those requirements will be rejected as non-responsive;
(f) A declaration pursuant to article 8 of this Law;
(g) The means of obtaining the request for proposals and the place where
it may be obtained;
(h) The price, if any, to be charged by the procuring entity for the request
for proposals;
(i) If a price is to be charged for the request for proposals, the means and
currency of payment;
(j) The language or languages in which the request for proposals is available;
(k) The manner, place and deadline for presenting proposals.
3. The procuring entity shall issue the request for proposals:
(a) Where an invitation to participate in the request-for-proposals-without-
negotiation proceedings has been published in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of article 35 of this Law, to each supplier or contractor
responding to the invitation in accordance with the procedures and
requirements specified therein;
(b) In the case of pre-qualification, to each supplier or contractor
pre-qualified in accordance with article 18 of this Law;
(c) In the case of direct solicitation under paragraph 2 of article 35 of this
Law, to each supplier or contractor selected by the procuring entity;
that pays the price, if any, charged for the request for proposals. The price that
the procuring entity may charge for the request for proposals shall reflect only
the cost of providing it to suppliers or contractors.
4. The request for proposals shall include, in addition to the information
referred to in subparagraphs (a) to (e) and (k) of paragraph 2 of this article, the
following information:
(a) Instructions for preparing and presenting proposals, including instructions
to suppliers or contractors to present simultaneously to the procuring
entity proposals in two envelopes: one envelope containing the technical, quality
and performance characteristics of the proposal, and the other envelope
containing the financial aspects of the proposal;
(b) If suppliers or contractors are permitted to present proposals for only
a portion of the subject matter of the procurement, a description of the portion
or portions for which proposals may be presented;
(c) The currency or currencies in which the proposal price is to be formulated
and expressed, the currency that will be used for the purpose of evaluating
proposals and either the exchange rate that will be used for the conversion
of proposal prices into that currency or a statement that the rate published by a
specified financial institution and prevailing on a specified date will be used;
(d) The manner in which the proposal price is to be formulated and
expressed, including a statement as to whether the price is to cover elements
other than the cost of the subject matter of the procurement itself, such as reimbursement
for transportation, lodging, insurance, use of equipment, duties or
taxes;
(e) The means by which, pursuant to article 15 of this Law, suppliers or
contractors may seek clarification of the request for proposals, and a statement
as to whether the procuring entity intends to convene a meeting of suppliers or
contractors at this stage;
(f) References to this Law, the procurement regulations and other laws
and regulations directly pertinent to the procurement proceedings, including
those applicable to procurement involving classified information, and the place
where those laws and regulations may be found;
(g) The name, functional title and address of one or more officers or
employees of the procuring entity who are authorized to communicate directly
with and to receive communications directly from suppliers or contractors in
connection with the procurement proceedings without the intervention of an
intermediary;
(h) Notice of the right provided under article 64 of this Law to challenge
or appeal decisions or actions taken by the procuring entity that are allegedly
not in compliance with the provisions of this Law, together with information
about the duration of the applicable standstill period and, if none will apply, a
statement to that effect and the reasons therefor;
(i) Any formalities that will be required, once the successful proposal has
been accepted, for a procurement contract to enter into force, including, where
applicable, the execution of a written procurement contract and approval by
another authority pursuant to article 22 of this Law, and the estimated period
of time following the dispatch of the notice of acceptance that will be required
to obtain the approval;
(j) Any other requirements that may be established by the procuring entity
in conformity with this Law and the procurement regulations relating to the
preparation and presentation of proposals and to the procurement proceedings.
5. Before opening the envelopes containing the financial aspects of the proposals,
the procuring entity shall examine and evaluate the technical, quality
and performance characteristics of proposals in accordance with the criteria
and procedures specified in the request for proposals.
6. The results of the examination and evaluation of the technical, quality and
performance characteristics of the proposals shall immediately be included in
the record of the procurement proceedings.
7. The proposals whose technical, quality and performance characteristics
fail to meet the relevant minimum requirements shall be considered to be
non-responsive and shall be rejected on that ground. A notice of rejection and
the reasons for the rejection, together with the unopened envelope containing
the financial aspects of the proposal, shall promptly be dispatched to each
respective supplier or contractor whose proposal was rejected.
8. The proposals whose technical, quality and performance characteristics
meet or exceed the relevant minimum requirements shall be considered to be
responsive. The procuring entity shall promptly communicate to each supplier
or contractor presenting such a proposal the score of the technical, quality and
performance characteristics of its respective proposal. The procuring entity
shall invite all such suppliers or contractors to the opening of the envelopes
containing the financial aspects of their proposals.
9. The score of the technical, quality and performance characteristics of
each responsive proposal and the corresponding financial aspect of that proposal
shall be read out in the presence of the suppliers or contractors invited,
in accordance with paragraph 8 of this article, to the opening of the envelopes
containing the financial aspects of the proposals.
10. The procuring entity shall compare the financial aspects of the responsive
proposals and on that basis identify the successful proposal in accordance with
the criteria and the procedure set out in the request for proposals. The successful
proposal shall be the proposal with the best combined evaluation in terms of: (a)
the criteria other than price specified in the request for proposals; and (b) the price.