CHAPTER V. PROCEDURES FOR TWO-STAGE TENDERING, REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS WITH DIALOGUE,
REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS WITH CONSECUTIVE NEGOTIATIONS, COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATIONS AND 
SINGLE-SOURCE PROCUREMENT

Article 48. Two-stage tendering
1. The provisions of chapter III of this Law shall apply to two-stage-tendering
proceedings, except to the extent that those provisions are derogated from in this
article.

2. The solicitation documents shall call upon suppliers or contractors to
present, in the first stage of two-stage-tendering proceedings, initial tenders
containing their proposals without a tender price. The solicitation documents
may solicit proposals relating to the technical, quality or performance characteristics
of the subject matter of the procurement, as well as to contractual
terms and conditions of supply and, where relevant, the professional and technical
competence and qualifications of the suppliers or contractors.

3. The procuring entity may, in the first stage, engage in discussions with
suppliers or contractors whose initial tenders have not been rejected pursuant
to provisions of this Law concerning any aspect of their initial tenders. When
the procuring entity engages in discussions with any supplier or contractor, it
shall extend an equal opportunity to participate in discussions to all suppliers
or contractors.

4. (a) In the second stage of two-stage-tendering proceedings, the procuring
entity shall invite all suppliers or contractors whose initial tenders were not
rejected in the first stage to present final tenders with prices in response to a
revised set of terms and conditions of the procurement;
(b) In revising the relevant terms and conditions of the procurement, the
procuring entity may not modify the subject matter of the procurement but may
refine aspects of the description of the subject matter of the procurement by:

(i) Deleting or modifying any aspect of the technical, quality or performance
characteristics of the subject matter of the procurement initially provided and adding any new characteristics that conform to the requirements of this Law;

(ii) Deleting or modifying any criterion for examining or evaluating tenders
initially provided and adding any new criterion that conforms
to the requirements of this Law, only to the extent that the deletion,
modification or addition is required as a result of changes made in
the technical, quality or performance characteristics of the subject
matter of the procurement;
(c) Any deletion, modification or addition made pursuant to subparagraph
(b) of this paragraph shall be communicated to suppliers or contractors
in the invitation to present final tenders;
(d) A supplier or contractor not wishing to present a final tender may withdraw
from the tendering proceedings without forfeiting any tender security
that the supplier or contractor may have been required to provide;
(e) The final tenders shall be evaluated in order to ascertain the successful
tender as defined in paragraph 3 (b) of article 43 of this Law.

Article 49. Request for proposals with dialogue
1. The procuring entity shall solicit proposals by causing an invitation to
participate in the request-for-proposals-with-dialogue proceedings to be published
in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 35 of this Law, unless an
exception provided for in that article applies.

2. The invitation shall include:
(a) The name and address of the procuring entity;
(b) A description of the subject matter of the procurement, to the extent
known, and the desired or required time and location for the provision of such
subject matter;
(c) The terms and conditions of the procurement contract, to the extent
that they are already known to the procuring entity, and the form of the contract,
if any, to be signed by the parties;
(d) The intended stages of the procedure;
(e) The criteria and procedures to be used for ascertaining the qualifications
of suppliers or contractors and any documentary evidence or other information
that must be presented by suppliers or contractors to demonstrate their
qualifications, in conformity with article 9 of this Law;
(f) The minimum requirements that proposals must meet in order to be
considered responsive in accordance with article 10 of this Law and a statement
that proposals that fail to meet those requirements will be rejected as
non-responsive;
(g) A declaration pursuant to article 8 of this Law;
(h) The means of obtaining the request for proposals and the place where
it may be obtained;
(i) The price, if any, to be charged by the procuring entity for the request
for proposals;
(j) If a price is to be charged for the request for proposals, the means and
currency of payment;
(k) The language or languages in which the request for proposals is available;
(l) The manner, place and deadline for presenting proposals.

3. For the purpose of limiting the number of suppliers or contractors from
which to request proposals, the procuring entity may engage in pre-selection
proceedings. The provisions of article 18 of this Law shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the pre-selection proceedings, except to the extent that those
provisions are derogated from in this paragraph:

(a) The procuring entity shall specify in the pre-selection documents that
it will request proposals from only a limited number of pre-selected suppliers
or contractors that best meet the qualification criteria specified in the pre-selection
documents;
(b) The pre-selection documents shall set out the maximum number
of pre-selected suppliers or contractors from which the proposals will be
requested and the manner in which the selection of that number will be carried
out. In establishing such a limit, the procuring entity shall bear in mind the
need to ensure effective competition;
(c) The procuring entity shall rate the suppliers or contractors that meet
the criteria specified in the pre-selection documents according to the manner
of rating that is set out in the invitation to pre-selection and the pre-selection
documents;
(d) The procuring entity shall pre-select suppliers or contractors that
acquired
the best rating, up to the maximum number indicated in the pre-selection
documents but at least three, if possible;
(e) The procuring entity shall promptly notify each supplier or contractor
whether it has been pre-selected and shall, upon request, communicate to
suppliers or contractors that have not been pre-selected the reasons therefor. It
shall make available to any person, upon request, the names of all suppliers or
contractors that have been pre-selected.

4. The procuring entity shall issue the request for proposals:
(a) Where an invitation to participate in the request-for-proposals-with-dialogue
proceedings has been published in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of article 35 of this Law, to each supplier or contractor responding
to the invitation in accordance with the procedures and requirements specified
therein;
(b) In the case of pre-qualification, to each supplier or contractor
pre-qualified in accordance with article 18 of this Law;
(c) Where pre-selection proceedings have been engaged in, to each
pre-selected supplier or contractor in accordance with the procedures and
requirements specified in the pre-selection documents;
(d) In the case of direct solicitation under paragraph 2 of article 35 of this
Law, to each supplier or contractor selected by the procuring entity;
that pays the price, if any, charged for the request for proposals. The price that
the procuring entity may charge for the request for proposals shall reflect only
the cost of providing it to suppliers or contractors.

5. The request for proposals shall include, in addition to the information
referred to in paragraphs 2 (a) to (f) and (l) of this article, the following
information:
(a) Instructions for preparing and presenting proposals;
(b) If suppliers or contractors are permitted to present proposals for only
a portion of the subject matter of the procurement, a description of the portion
or portions for which proposals may be presented;
(c) The currency or currencies in which the proposal price is to be formulated
and expressed, the currency that will be used for the purpose of evaluating
proposals and either the exchange rate that will be used for the conversion
of proposal prices into that currency or a statement that the rate published by a
specified financial institution and prevailing on a specified date will be used;
(d) The manner in which the proposal price is to be formulated and
expressed, including a statement as to whether the price is to cover elements
other than the cost of the subject matter of the procurement itself, such as reimbursement
for transportation, lodging, insurance, use of equipment, duties or taxes;
(e) The means by which, pursuant to article 15 of this Law, suppliers or
contractors may seek clarification of the request for proposals and a statement
as to whether the procuring entity intends to convene a meeting of suppliers or
contractors at this stage;
(f) Any element of the description of the subject matter of the procurement
or term or condition of the procurement contract that will not be the
subject of dialogue during the procedure;
(g) Where the procuring entity intends to limit the number of suppliers or
contractors that it will invite to participate in the dialogue, the minimum number
of suppliers or contractors, which shall be not lower than three, if possible,
and, where appropriate, the maximum number of suppliers or contractors and
the criteria and procedure, in conformity with the provisions of this Law, that
will be followed in selecting either number;
(h) The criteria and procedure for evaluating the proposals in accordance
with article 11 of this Law;
(i) References to this Law, the procurement regulations and other laws
and regulations directly pertinent to the procurement proceedings, including
those applicable to procurement involving classified information, and the place
where those laws and regulations may be found;
(j) The name, functional title and address of one or more officers or
employees
of the procuring entity who are authorized to communicate directly
with and to receive communications directly from suppliers or contractors in
connection
with the procurement proceedings without the intervention of an
intermediary;
(k) Notice of the right provided under article 64 of this Law to challenge
or appeal decisions or actions taken by the procuring entity that are allegedly
not in compliance with the provisions of this Law, together with information
about the duration of the applicable standstill period and, if none will apply, a
statement to that effect and the reasons therefor;
(l) Any formalities that will be required, once the successful offer has
been accepted, for a procurement contract to enter into force, including, where
applicable, the execution of a written procurement contract and approval by
another authority pursuant to article 22 of this Law, and the estimated period
of time following dispatch of the notice of acceptance that will be required to
obtain the approval;
(m) Any other requirements that may be established by the procuring
entity in conformity with this Law and the procurement regulations relating
to the preparation and presentation of proposals and to the procurement
proceedings.

6. (a) The procuring entity shall examine all proposals received against
the established minimum requirements and shall reject each proposal that fails
to meet these minimum requirements on the ground that it is non-responsive;
(b) Where a maximum limit on the number of suppliers or contractors that
can be invited to participate in the dialogue has been established and the number
of responsive proposals exceeds that limit, the procuring entity shall select
the maximum number of responsive proposals in accordance with the criteria
and procedure specified in the request for proposals;
(c) A notice of rejection and the reasons for the rejection shall be promptly
dispatched to each respective supplier or contractor whose proposal was
rejected.

7. The procuring entity shall invite each supplier or contractor that presented
a responsive proposal, within any applicable maximum, to participate in the
dialogue. The procuring entity shall ensure that the number of suppliers or
contractors invited to participate in the dialogue, which shall be at least three,
if possible, is sufficient to ensure effective competition.

8. The dialogue shall be conducted by the same representatives of the procuring
entity on a concurrent basis.

9. During the course of the dialogue, the procuring entity shall not modify
the subject matter of the procurement, any qualification or evaluation criterion,
any minimum requirements established pursuant to paragraph 2 (f) of this article,
any element of the description of the subject matter of the procurement
or any term or condition of the procurement contract that is not subject to the
dialogue as specified in the request for proposals.

10. Any requirements, guidelines, documents, clarifications or other information
generated during the dialogue that is communicated by the procuring
entity to a supplier or contractor shall be communicated at the same time and
on an equal basis to all other participating suppliers or contractors, unless such
information is specific or exclusive to that supplier or contractor or such communication
would be in breach of the confidentiality provisions of article 24
of this Law.

11. Following the dialogue, the procuring entity shall request all suppliers or
contractors remaining in the proceedings to present a best and final offer with
respect to all aspects of their proposals. The request shall be in writing and shall
specify the manner, place and deadline for presenting best and final offers.

12. No negotiations shall take place between the procuring entity and suppliers
or contractors with respect to their best and final offers.

13. The successful offer shall be the offer that best meets the needs of the
procuring entity as determined in accordance with the criteria and procedure
for evaluating the proposals set out in the request for proposals.

Article 50. Request for proposals with consecutive negotiations
1. The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 7 of article 47 of this Law shall apply
mutatis mutandis to procurement conducted by means of request for proposals
with consecutive negotiations, except to the extent that those provisions are
derogated from in this article.

2. Proposals whose technical, quality and performance characteristics
meet or exceed the relevant minimum requirements shall be considered to
be responsive. The procuring entity shall rank each responsive proposal in
accordance with the criteria and procedure for evaluating proposals as set out
in the request for proposals and shall:
(a) Promptly communicate to each supplier or contractor presenting
a responsive proposal the score of the technical, quality and performance characteristics
of its respective proposal and its ranking;
(b) Invite the supplier or contractor that has attained the best ranking, in
accordance with those criteria and procedure, for negotiations on the financial
aspects of its proposal; and
(c) Inform other suppliers or contractors that presented responsive proposals
that their proposals may be considered for negotiation if negotiations
with the supplier (or suppliers) or contractor (or contractors) with a better
ranking do not result in a procurement contract.

3. If it becomes apparent to the procuring entity that the negotiations with
the supplier or contractor invited pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) of this article
will not result in a procurement contract, the procuring entity shall inform that
supplier or contractor that it is terminating the negotiations.

4. The procuring entity shall then invite for negotiations the supplier or
contractor that attained the second-best ranking; if the negotiations with that
supplier or contractor do not result in a procurement contract, the procuring
entity shall invite the other suppliers or contractors still participating in the
procurement proceedings for negotiations on the basis of their ranking until it
arrives at a procurement contract or rejects all remaining proposals.

5. During the course of the negotiations, the procuring entity shall not modify
the subject matter of the procurement; any qualification, examination or
evaluation criterion, including any established minimum requirements; any
element of the description of the subject matter of the procurement; or term or
condition of the procurement contract other than financial aspects of proposals
that are subject to the negotiations as specified in the request for proposals.

6. The procuring entity may not reopen negotiations with any supplier or
contractor with which it has terminated negotiations.

Article 51. Competitive negotiations
1. Paragraphs 3, 5 and 6 of article 34 of this Law shall apply to the procedure
preceding the negotiations.

2. Any requirements, guidelines, documents, clarifications or other
information relative to the negotiations that is communicated by the procuring
entity to a supplier or contractor before or during the negotiations shall be
communicated at the same time and on an equal basis to all other suppliers or
contractors engaging in negotiations with the procuring entity relative to the
procurement, unless such information is specific or exclusive to that supplier
or contractor or such communication would be in breach of the confidentiality
provisions of article 24 of this Law.

3. Following completion of negotiations, the procuring entity shall request all
suppliers or contractors remaining in the proceedings to present, by a specified
date, a best and final offer with respect to all aspects of their proposals.

4. No negotiations shall take place between the procuring entity and suppliers
or contractors with respect to their best and final offers.

5. The successful offer shall be the offer that best meets the needs of the
procuring entity.

Article 52. Single-source procurement
Paragraphs 4 to 6 of article 34 of this Law shall apply to the procedure preceding
the solicitation of a proposal or price quotation from a single supplier or
contractor. The procuring entity shall engage in negotiations with the supplier
or contractor from which a proposal or price quotation is solicited unless such
negotiations are not feasible in the circumstances of the procurement concerned.